---
layout: post
title: "Bernie Krause: The voice of the natural world"
date: 2018-08-06 22:54:54 -0400
external-url: https://www.ted.com/talks/bernie_krause_the_voice_of_the_natural_world
tags:
- TED_Talks
---

Anyone who knows me well will say how I perceive much of the world through
sound. Nothing brings me greater joy than visiting the heart of
Pennsylvania's deep forests and hearing the symphony. Nothing brings me
greater frustration and anxiety than a loud construction vehicle driving by
me as I walk down the street. I'm quite sound-sensitive, you might say.

Thus, Bernie Krause's recordings of the world's soundscapes piqued my
interest. From gorgeous symphonies of old growth forests, to the din of
cities, Krause explains his life's work. Through thousands of hours of
recording over nearly half a century, Krause has produced wonderful
soundscapes. He defines soundscapes as the combination of a geophony,
biophony, and anthrophony.

These soundscapes provide more than just a beautiful listening experience.
They also provide a unique way of measuring the health of a habitat. He
describes a case where he made a recording of an older forest before a
logging company came through and did some selective logging. Under the same
conditions exactly one year later, he made another recording. The
difference is stark. Many of the sounds in the biophony that had been
present the year prior were gone. It was obvious that the ecosystem had
suffered significant damage, even while the forest had not changed much
visually.

Krause's talk will inspire you to protect what little habitat is left in
the world, untouched by man's desire to squeeze economic value out of every
inch of this great world we all inhabit.
