---
layout: post
title: "Everything you've ever wanted to know about coffee | Chandler Graf | TEDxACU"
date: 2018-11-14 14:07:34 -0500
external-url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N8meCjVsJWI
---

As someon who drinks coffee every day, this clickbait title caught my
attention. Graf does not disappoint. He distills several key facts about
discerning coffees, making the task of picking a coffee that much easier.

He discusses two methods for extracting the bean from the cherry that comes
off the tree: "washed", and "natural". "Washed" uses water to blast off the
cherry's outer layers, leaving just the inner bean to be dried. This
provides the truest flavor of the bean itself. "Natural" begins the drying
process with the cherry's outer layers still intact, around the bean.
Natural yeast consume and ferment the sugars in the cherry, producing
byproducts that reduce bitterness & intensity of the coffee, and provide a
creaminess not found in coffees dried with the "washed" method.

Graf then compares two origins: Ethiopia and Indonesia. In Indonesia, most
coffee is grown at low altitudes. In Ethiopia, most coffee is grown at much
higher altitudes. Altitude affects oxygen density in the air, which affects
the coffee plants' abilities to respire. Respiration occurring in
low-oxygen areas forces these plants to use anaerobic respiration to
generate energy, with a byproduct of lactic acid. This lactic acid adds a
creaminess and frutiness or crispness to a coffee.

Roast levels are determined by how much the Maillard Reaction has been able
to transform the bean. The darker the roast, the more savory the coffee
will be. The lighter the roast, the more true the flavor will be to the
coffee, as less of the sugar and amino acid content has been transformed.

Last, Graf describes the way different brewing methods affect the coffee
you'll pour into your cup. Full immersion (like french press) allows all
soluble elements of the coffee to infuse the water. Full immersion brewing
methods provide a rich, oily, full-bodied cup of coffee. Pour-over coffee,
on the other end of the spectrum, only allows the water to sit with the
coffee for a few seconds as it passes through the grounds. While it doesn't
have the body of the french press, it provides greater clarity in the cup.
This clarity allows the drinker to taste more of the complexities and
flavors present in the coffee.

I had never spent much time learning or thinking about coffee. I knew how
my favorite cups were made (central american origins, velvety roast, full
immersion brewing method!) but now I know so much more about the whole
spectrum of coffee.
